he who sits alone sleeps alone and walks
alone
who is strenuous and subdues himself
will find delight in the solitude of the
forest
the buddha some people avoid
solitude like the plague others love
being alone
and thrive best in solitude when they
are far away from the endless chatter
of their fellow human beings
unfortunately
in the individualistic western society
loneliness is one of the most
common reasons for misery like mental
illness
and addiction so i think it's very
important that people know how to spend
their time alone in a healthy way and
not seeing it as a punishment
but rather as an opportunity to grow as
a person
hence i present you 4 healthy ways to be
[Music]
alone
being alone comes in many forms we have
extreme cases like hermits
that spend most of their lives without
socializing and we have those more
moderate solitude seekers that spend
time by themselves
for specific reasons like meditation
reflection
or achieving certain goals on the other
hand
there are cases in which loneliness
becomes a vessel for
mental and physical problems and even
death
the term lone wolf has quite a negative
charge in society because it is used to
describe people
whose solitude was a breeding ground for
hate that has led
to violence so regardless of the fact
that
loneliness is chosen or not it's how we
spend that time that decides the outcome
the ways i present in this video are
practical as well as philosophical and i
hope you'll find some
value in them 1.
be your own best host this is a
practical one
when you spend time alone at home
imagine that you're a guest in your own
house
how would you treat a guest how would
you talk to a guest
when we are mean to our guests they will
probably don't like being around us
thus when we are mean to ourselves it's
not surprising that we don't like being
around ourselves
either if you're lonely when you're
alone you're in bad company
said french philosopher jean-paul sartre
and i think he's
absolutely right now we can apply this
self-hospitality
in many ways the way we talk to
ourselves and also if we cook ourselves
a nice meal
with the same love as we would do for
others or if we don't allow ourselves
anything better than a nasty microwave
dinner
also the preparation of giving ourselves
a good time in solitude
means taking care of our ego extensions
psychiatrist carl
jung argued that we become so entangled
with our direct environment that it
becomes
part of ourselves thus taking care of
ourselves means
taking care of our environment spending
time alone in a tidy house
has a better impact on our mood than
spending time alone in a mess
moreover the act of cleaning has a
meditative effect on the mind
so preparing ourselves for some me time
by tidying the house
is already a great start two
realize that we are always connected
yeah i know this sounds a bit
contradictory but most people feel
lonely
when they are physically alone on a
saturday night
while other people are outside partying
and drinking for example
when a dreadful fear of missing out
kicks in this
sense of being separated from all this
fun joy and pleasure
can really make people suffer as a means
to cope
people indulge themselves in unhealthy
pleasures like drinking
drugs or binge watching porn just to
numb
the pain of loneliness in a lecture
chinese buddhist monk
and scholar shang yen told about his
experience in solitude
and that he didn't feel lonely at all i
quote
when i was in solitary retreat i knew
that i was together with all sentient
beings
in innumerable worlds even though i seem
to be
alone in a small enclosed room actually
i was in company
with many ants who found their way
inside
and there were many insects around the
hut who created all kinds of sounds
in the evening end quote loneliness is
just a perception
we can perceive loneliness as something
bad and horrible
and we can perceive a certain situation
as lonely
even though we aren't alone as stoic
philosopher epictetus stated
and i quote men are disturbed not by
things but by the principles
and notions which they form concerning
things
end quote so this is why some people
feel
lonely in groups while others feel
connected
when they are alone in reality
everything in this world is connected
we are all part of one big universe and
we are all made of the same stuff
here on earth we come from the same soil
breathe
the same air and drink the same water if
we
realize this how can we possibly be
lonely 3. sit with it
being around people all the time is a
great way to avoid
what's actually going on in ourselves
people that need to be around
others all the time that do spend time
alone at some point
do everything to avoid that
self-confrontation and suppress the
experience of their inner lives with
short-term pleasure this is unfortunate
because
being alone is an excellent opportunity
for
introspection by going inwards we might
find out what's bothering us
what we want to change etc these are
difficult
things to contemplate sometimes but
doing it can help us tremendously
in the long run also the practice of
meditation means that we observe our
thoughts
and physical sensations this means that
we can learn what's actually happening
inside us
in a way that we normally don't if we
become aware of certain anxieties
anger tension tiredness and so on
and accept them they will eventually
dissolve
again this can be experienced as
discomfort
but it's a much healthier way to get
into a calmer
state than self-medicating with drugs
or alcohol 4 chase your dreams
being around people all the time can be
a lot of fun but it also gravitates us
to do as they do like watching the same
television shows
talking about the same subjects and
having the same opinions
it's the herd mentality which could be
detrimental
to achieving your goals and dreams
spending time away from the herd
can not only give us new perspectives by
introspection
it also creates the opportunity to
actually do what we want to do
regardless of what other people think
all achievements
come with sacrifice so that's why it
makes perfect sense
to sacrifice parties drunk nights at a
bar
or dinners with friends in order to
build something for ourselves
solitude can be a great vessel for this
when you're creating something in
solitude you will
begin to embrace your time alone and
you'll less likely develop
unhealthy addictions you simply don't
have time for that
when i'm writing a script or editing a
video for this channel for example i
often find myself in a state of joy
which i could best describe as a state
in which nothing is missing
everything is there now in the present
moment
it's the opposite of addiction it's
highly fulfilling
and working on something i love is
enjoyable in this state
it's quite difficult to feel lonely
so that's it thank you for watching
[Music]
you